- The **index.html** file in an Angular project acts as the *single page* that is core to the SPA functionality.
- **index.html** references the root component via the **app-root** tag seen inside the index.html file.
- This root component and index.html are automatically generated by the CLI when setting up the project.
- The root components default name is **AppComponent** but this can be changed (not recommended).

- When an Angular project runs in the browser, the CLI first needs to translate the Angular code into native javascript code so the browser can understand it (see [[Compilation Context]]).
- If you run your Angular project and open the **View Page Source** window in the browser, you can see that none of the Angular code is deployed. Instead, you have the content of the **index.html** file plus a list of imported JavaScript files at the end.
- These JavaScript files are generated by the CLI and contain the JavaScript translation of our Angular code.

### main.ts
- During the build process performed by the CLI, the first code to be executed in our Angular project is the code inside the **main.ts** file. 
- The actual function in the **main.ts** that performs the bootstrap process will differ depending on whether the Angular application is module based or standalone component based:
##### Module Based
- Prior to Angular 9, the only function that performed the bootstrap process was:
	```typescript
	platformBrowserDynamic().bootstrapModule(AppModule)
	```
- Internally, the `bootstrapModule` function will check the `bootstrap` property of the NgModule type passed in.
- The bootstrap array property of NgModule declares the root component that is referenced in the `index.html` file. 
- This bootstrap array basically lists the components that should be known to the CLI at the point of time that it analyses the index.html file.
##### Standalone Component Based
- Due to the introduction of the Ivy compiler in Angular 9, we can also use the following function call in the **main.ts** file to trigger the bootstrap process:
	```typescript
	bootstrapApplication(AppComponent);
	```
- This takes a Component type as argument instead of a module.
- This component must be a standalone component.
- This approach is for standalone component based applications
- Note that in Angular 9 onwards, we can still use the original `bootstrapModule` approach as Angular is designed to be backward compatible.