### What is .NET ?
- .NET is a platform that provides a comprehensive environment for building a wide range of cross-platform applications using various languages, libraries, and tools.

### What are the components of .NET ?
- Runtime Environments
	- .NET Core
	- .NET Framework
	- Mono
- Class Libraries
- Base Class Library (BCL)
- Common Language Runtime (CLR)
	- Common Language Infrastructure (CLI)
		- CTS
			-  CLS
	- .NET Standard
- Frameworks and Tools
	- ASP.NET
	- Entity Framework
	- WinForms and WPF
	- Xamarin
	- Blazor
- Languages
	- C#
	- F#
	- Visual Basic

### What is the .NET Framework
- *Windows only*
- This is the original version of the .NET platform, which is mostly used for building Windows only desktops and web applications. 
- It is still supported, but it is considered a legacy technology.

### What is .NET Core
- *Multiple operating systems*
- This is a cross-platform version of .NET that was introduced to overcome some limitations of the .NET Framework. 
- It is lightweight, fast, and suitable for building cross-platform applications that can run on Windows, macOS, and Linux.
- It was completely rewritten from scratch

### What is .NET 5 (and beyond) ?
- Microsoft decided to simplify the naming and converge `.NET Core` and `.NET Framework` into a single platform called `.NET 5`. 
- `.NET 5` and above is just `.NET Core` version 5 and above. 
- 5 was chosen to be higher than both `.NET core 3`, and `.NET framework 4.8`. (there was no `.NET core 4.X`)
- This new platform is fully supported and is the recommended choice for new projects.

### What is ASP.NET ?
- ASP.NET is a **web framework** that sits on top of the .NET framework and is used to build **dynamic web applications**.

### What are the differences between ASP.NET and ASP ?
- ASP.NET 
	- Advanced features for web development
		- MVC framework
		- Web APIs
		- Better security
	- Uses `C#` and `VB.NET`
	- Compiled to MSIL
- ASP
	- Uses `VBScript` scripting language.
	- Interpreted during execution

### How can you differentiate .NET Core from ASP.NET Core ?
- .NET Core is a *runtime* and is used for the *execution* of an application that is built for it.
- ASP.NET Core is a collection of *libraries* that will form a *framework* for developing *web* applications.

### What is the .NET Standard and why would you use it ?
###### Answer
- This is a specification that defines a common set of APIs that can be used by .NET applications. 
- This makes it possible for the same code to run on many different .NET platforms, such as .NET Framework, .NET Core, and .NET 5 and beyond.
- For example, the **Roslyn** compiler is a `.NET Standard 2.0` library, meaning that it can run on both `.NET Framework 4.6.1+` and `.NET Core 2.0+`.
###### Use Cases
- Increase the number of applications that will be compatible with your library, and you are okay with a decrease in the .NET API surface area your library can access.
###### Explained
- There are various implementations of .NET (.NET Core, Mono, Xamarin, .NET Framework, etc). 
- Each implementation allows .NET code to execute in different places—Linux, macOS, Windows, iOS, Android, and many more. 
- .NET Standard then is a formal specification of the APIs that are common across all these .NET implementations.
- .NET Standard allows libraries to build against the agreed on set of common APIs, ensuring they can be used in any .NET application—mobile, desktop, IoT, web, or anywhere you write .NET code.
- .NET Standard is an in-between library that allows code to be shared between .NET Framework and .NET Core. In theory, if you compile code to .NET standard, it should be compatible with Framework and Core.
###### Explained Further
- .NET Framework, .NET Core and Mono for Xamarin all have different Base Class Libraries but all these BCLs follow common rules and regulations. 
- *Those rules and regulations are called .NET Standard.* 
- If a BCL follows these rules, then it is said to be *.NET Standard compliant*.
###### .NET 5 and later
- .NET 5 and later versions adopt a different approach to establishing uniformity that eliminates the need for .NET Standard in most scenarios.
- It is not a framework, it is a specification or set of rules.

### What is the Common Language Runtime (CLR) ?
- A runtime environment that manages the execution of .NET programs, providing services like memory management, type safety, exception handling, garbage collection, and more.

### What are Class Libraries ?
- Class libraries are the [shared library](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Library_%28computing%29#Shared_libraries) concept for .NET. 
- They enable developers to package useful functionality into modules that can be shared by multiple applications. 
- Some examples provided by .NET are the **Base Class Library** and **Framework Class Libraries** like `ASP.NET`.

### What are the types of Class Libraries ?
- **Platform-specific** 
	- Have access to all the APIs in a given platform (for example, .NET Framework on Windows, Xamarin iOS)
	- Can only be used by apps and libraries that target that platform.
- **Portable**
	- Can be used by apps and libraries that target multiple platforms. 
	- They have access to a subset of APIs that are common across those targeted platforms.
- **.NET Standard** 
	- A merger of the **platform-specific** and **portable** library concept into a single model that provides the best of both.

### What is the Base Class Library (BCL) ?
- A core set of functionality (classes, interfaces, delegates and value types) that is used by all .NET applications.
- It provides a wide range of functionalities such as:
	- Handling strings
	- Collections
	- Input/Output
	- Networking
	- Security
	- Threading
- BCL includes everything under the System namespace including:
	- System.Collections
	- System.IO 
	- System.Text
	- System.Multithreading
- These classes form the foundation upon which more specialized functionality can be built.

### What is a Framework Class Library (FCL) ?
- Extended collection of classes, types, and components built on top of the BCL.
- It provides higher-level functionality that is specific to certain application domains or industries. 
- A FCL can be built for GUI development, web development, database access, networking, and more.
- Examples of FCL are ASP.NET for developing web applications and WPF which is used to render user interfaces.
- More [info](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/net-framework-class-library-fcl/)

### What is Mono ?
- An open-source implementation of the .NET Framework, primarily used for running .NET applications on macOS and Linux.

### What is Common Intermediate Language (CIL) ?
- A CPU and platform-independent *instruction set* that can be executed in any environment supporting the Common Language Runtime, such as the .NET runtime on Windows, or the cross-platform Mono runtime.
- When you write source code in languages that are compatible with the .NET ecosystem, such as C#, Visual Basic, or F#, the compilation process (done by Roslyn) converts this source code into Common Intermediate Language.
- This compiled code is stored in the form of an assembly file that has **.dll** or **.exe** extension.

### What is the Common Type System (CTS) ?
- Defines all possible data types and programming constructs supported by the runtime.
- Defines how types are declared, used, and managed in the CLR.
- It also defines, through the Common Language Specification, the rules and regulations that allow *interoperability* between different languages.
- More info in [[CTS]] note.

### What is the Common Language Specification (CLS) ?
- CLS is a subset of CTS 
- Defines a set of rules and regulations to support inter-operability or cross-language integration so that code written in one CLS-compliant language can be used in another CLS-compliant language.
- The CLS does not include all types or constructs from the CTS, *only those that are common across all languages*.
- It helps in reusing the code among all of the .NET-compatible languages.

### What is the Common Language Infrastructure (CLI) and what are the components that make it up ?
- A *specification* that defines the fundamentals of a runtime environment for executing programs written in different high-level languages, allowing them to work together seamlessly within a single framework. 
- It specifies how code should be executed, how data types should be defined and managed, and how different languages should interoperate. 
- This standardization enables the development of a wide variety of languages on the .NET platform, all of which can work together in the same runtime environment.
- `.NET framework`, `.NET Core` and `.NET 5` are each implementations of the CLI.
- Components specified by the CLI:
	- **CLR**: 
		- The execution engine that manages running applications.
	- **CTS**: 
		- Defines data types and how they interact.
	- **CLS**: 
		- A subset of the CTS ensuring language interoperability.
	- **CIL**: 
		- The CPU-independent code that the runtime executes.
	- **Metadata**: 
		- Information about the program's types, members, and references making it possible to perform tasks like reflection.

### What is MSBuild in .NET ?
###### Recap
- Build tool.
- Automation
	- Compilation, packaging, testing, deployment and documentation.
- VS independent.
###### Detailed
- It is a *build tool* that is helpful in automating the software product creation process, along with source code compilation, packaging, testing, deployment, and documentation creation.
- We can build Visual Studio projects and solutions using MSBuild without the need of installing the Visual Studio IDE.

### What is the JIT Compiler in .NET ?
- When a .NET application is run, a part of the CLR called the JIT Compiler takes the assembly file and translates the CIL code into native machine code that the underlying machine understands *whilst the application is running*.
- Where an application is compiled into CIL for later use, the JIT compiler is what executes when an application is actually run.
- This machine code can execute on the specific architecture of the computer it is running on.

### What is CoreCLR
- JIT implementation of the CLR

### What is AOT compilation and how does it differ from JIT compilation ?
###### Recap
- JIT converts CIL into native machine code during execution.
- AOT converts *some time before the execution*
	- Build time
	- Installation time
	- Any other time before execution
- AOT does not require the .NET runtime to be installed separately on the target machine
	- Everything is bundled into the single executable making is self-contained.
###### Detailed
- .NET languages traditionally used Just-in-Time (JIT) compilation. 
	- In this process, the source code is initially compiled into Common Intermediate Language (CIL) code.
	- Only *when* the code is executed does the JIT compiler translate the CIL code into machine code that the CPU processor can understand.
- Ahead-of-Time (AOT) Compilation, on the other hand, introduces a paradigm shift in this process. 
	- Instead of waiting for execution time, AOT compilation converts the CIL code into machine code *ahead of time*, hence the name. 
	- This conversion can occur at build time, installation time, or any other time before execution. 
	- As a result, *when the application is launched, the machine code is ready to be processed without the need for further compilation*.
- Other differences:
	- AOT has to perform additional steps at the compile time to make sure all the dependencies are located and included into the final executable file.
	- Whilst JIT compiles the source code into a platform independent code, AOT must compile down to the target architecture the application is required to run on (e.g. Linux).
- More info [here](https://medium.com/@devedium/understanding-ahead-of-time-aot-compilation-in-c-8ac9e5db91f3).

### What is .NET Native ?
###### Recap
- `CLR` Specification but for `AOT` instead of `JIT`.
###### Detailed
- Same purpose as the CLR but uses AOT compilation instead of JIT.
- Compile the CIL code into binary code and integrate any required .NET framework components.
- This produces a single-file self-contained executable whose performance is closer to code written in native languages like C or C++.
- Starts faster and uses less memory than `CLR` for `JIT` compilation.
- More info [here](https://stackoverflow.com/a/35044525/17385921)

### What is CoreRT ?
- Implementation of the`.NET Native` specification.