### Explain the different locking mechanisms
- lock keyword (Monitor)
- Mutex
- Semaphore
- ManualResetEvent/AutoResetEvent
	- These classes can be shared among threads to allow precise control regarding when some code should wait and when it can execute. 
	- The major difference here is that the code is not restricted to a critical zone.

### What is the `lock` statement in C# ?
- Ensures that one thread does not enter a critical section of code while another thread is in that critical section.
- It's a wrapper around the functionality of the `Monitor` class and is designed to make the `Monitor` easier to work with for the common case.
```C#
static readonly object _object = new object();

static void TestLock()
{
	lock (_object)
	{
		Thread.Sleep(100);
		Console.WriteLine(Environment.TickCount);
	}
}

static void Main(string[] args)
{
	for (int i = 0; i < 10; i++)
	{
		ThreadStart start = new ThreadStart(TestLock);
		new Thread(start).Start();
	}

	Console.ReadLine();
}
```

### What is the `Monitor` class in C# ?
- Monitor is a static class that is no different from `lock` but the monitor class provides more control over the synchronization of various threads trying to access the same lock of code.
- For example, you have the option to skip a locked block of code instead of waiting (which is not possible with `lock`)

### What is a `Semaphore` ?
- It allows a specified number of threads to access a resource simultaneously.
- A Semaphore might be used to limit the number of threads that can obtain a database connection from a pool at any given time.

### What is a `Mutex` and how is it different from other synchronization mechanisms ?
- Mutex is a .NET wrapper around an operating system construct, and can be used for *system-wide synchronization*, using string data (instead of a pointer to data) as its identifier.
- Whilst a `lock` and `Monitor` are specific to a single **AppDomain**, a **Mutex** is specific to the Operating System allowing you to perform *inter-process* locking and synchronization.
- In a scenario where multiple instances of an application should not run simultaneously, a Mutex can be used to enforce this. For instance, ensuring that only one instance of a database maintenance script runs at any given time.

### What is `AutoResetEvent` ?
- Used to *unlock* *a* *single* thread when multiple threads are in a waiting blocked state.
- The call to `Reset()` is called automatically
- Differs from other locking mechanisms because code is not restricted to a critical zone.
- More info at [[Event Wait Handles#AutoResetEvent|Auto Reset Event]]

### What is `ManualResetEvent` ?
- Used to *unlock* *multiple* threads at once when multiple threads are in a waiting blocked state.
- The call to `Reset()` must be called explicitly.
- Differs from other locking mechanisms because code is not restricted to a critical zone.
- More info at [[Event Wait Handles#ManualResetEvent|Manual Reset Event]]

### What are Interlocked functions ?
- When multiple threads have access to the same variable, the application must ensure that access is synchronized and operations on those variables are performed [[Atomic Operation|atomically]]. 
- Not doing so can lead to corrupted data and undefined behaviour.
- The interlocked functions provide a simple mechanism for synchronizing access to a variable that is shared by multiple threads and performing operations on those variables in an atomic manner. 
- Interlocked functions only support `int`, `long`, `double` and `float` data types.

### How do you make thread-safe code ?
- Use a locking mechanism (explained above)
- Immutable data
- Pure functions
- Collection classes in the `System.Collections.Concurrent` namespace. 
	- These classes provide built-in synchronized add and remove operations.
	- Examples are `ConcurrentDictionary`
- Avoid the need for thread-safe code