### What are the three ways of loading related data in EF Core  ?
##### Recap
- **Eager loading**
	- Loading main entity and related data in a single query
	- Use `Include` and `ThenInclude` methods
- **Lazy loading**
	- Related data only loaded when needed
	- Done implicitly when property is accessed.
- **Explicit loading**
	- Same as lazy loading but not done implicitly
	- Must call `Explicit` method
##### Detailed
###### Eager Loading
- Loading related data from the database along with the main entity in a single query, instead of executing additional queries to fetch the related data later.
- The `.Include` method is the most common way to specify which related entities to load when querying data using EF. This method allows you to specify one or more navigation properties to include in the query.
- In the below example, the `Include` method is used to load the Orders related to each Customer in a single query, instead of executing separate queries for each customer.
```c#
var customers = context.Customers.Include(c => c.Orders).ToList();
```
- Use the `.ThenInclude` method to load related entities that are more than one level deep
```c#
var customers = context.Customers
    .Include(c => c.Orders)
        .ThenInclude(o => o.OrderItems)
    .ToList();
```
###### Lazy Loading
- Defer the loading of related entities until they are actually needed, rather than loading them all at once.
- Lazy loading is achieved through the use of *proxy objects*. 
- When an entity is loaded from the database, a proxy object is created in place of each related entity of that entity. When a property or navigation property that reference a related entity is accessed, the proxy object intercepts the access and loads the related data from the database.

```c#
var invoices = db.Invoices
    .ToList();
    
// All invoices are already loaded...
foreach (var invoice in invoices)
{
    // ...invoice lines are queried when accessed...
    foreach (var invoiceLine in invoice.InvoiceLines)
    {
        // ...the related product is also queried when accessed
        var product = invoiceLine.Product;
        // ...
    }
}
```

###### Explicit Loading
- Explicit loading is somewhat similar to lazy loading, in that data from navigational properties is only queried from the database when it’s needed. 
- The difference with lazy loading is that you’ll have to query the related data *explicitly* using the `Load` method. If you don’t, only a partial or empty collection will be available, which would make your code unreliable.
- We explicitly load navigational properties using a combination of the `Entry`, `Collection` and `Load` methods:
```c#
var invoices = db.Invoices
    .ToList();
// All invoices are already loaded...
foreach (var invoice in invoices)
{
    // ...but you'll have to explicitly load invoice lines when they are needed
    db.Entry(invoice).Collection(p => p.InvoiceLines).Load();
    foreach (var invoiceLine in invoice.InvoiceLines)
    {
        // ...
    }
}
```

### What is the N+1 query problem
- The N+1 query problem happens when the data access framework executed N additional SQL statements to fetch the same data that could have been retrieved when executing the primary SQL query.
- Great example [here](https://stackoverflow.com/a/97253/17385921)

### What are the disadvantages of each related data loading approach ?
###### Eager Loading
- You have to remember to call `.Include()` to query related entities. If you forget to do this, your code will keep working but not be reliable because the returned data will be incomplete.
###### Lazy Loading
- N+1 problem
- If you almost always access the related entities there's an overhead because you're constantly going back to the database. 
- Harder to handle errors. 
	- If you lazy load a related collection and the DB is busy, you now need to have db error handling code in any method that might trigger a lazy load.
###### Explicit Loading
- N+1 problem

### When would you use each approach of loading related data ?
###### Eager Loading
- If you know you're going to need the related entities. Just get the lot in one hit and you're golden.
###### Lazy Loading
- Rarely need the related entities.
###### Explicit Loading
- Explicit is similar to lazy loading but gives you control over if and when the entities are loaded.
- Useful for situations where we don't know whether we actually need the related entities.
	- This might involve looking at the initial data and deciding based on its state whether the related data for some property needs to be loaded
	- Imagine you have a table with 100 parent entities and each has 1,000,000 related entities. You might want to pull back the 100 parents, look at them and then only do the expensive load on the parents that have related entities you need.

### What are some optimisation approaches in EF Core ?
###### Compiled Queries
- All LINQ queries are compiled at runtime.
- Compiled queries are LINQ queries that are pre-compiled into parameterized executable SQL statements.
- Automatically done in .NET 5 and above
	- IS THIS TRUE ???
- Implementation details [here](https://medium.com/@M-B-A-R-K/ef-core-compiled-queries-aea9f98c1d17)
- When you should use Compiled Queries explained [here](https://stackoverflow.com/a/4936287/17385921)
###### Projection
- Selecting only the specific fields or properties of entities that are needed for a particular operation. 
###### Changing loading approach
- Explained above