# IEnumerable and IEnumerator
### Explain the `IEnumerator` interface ?
- Provides methods that define how a collection is to be iterated over in a `foreach` loop.
- NOTE: It is advised *not* to implement this interface, but instead use the `yield` keyword.
- The `IEnumerator` interface defines the following members:
	**MoveNext():** 
	- Advances the enumerator to the next element in the collection.
	**Current**: 
	- Returns the current element in the collection.
	**Reset():**
	- Resets the enumerator to its initial position, which is before the first element in the collection.

### Explain the `IEnumerable` interface ?
- *"I am iterable"*
- Any type that implements `IEnumerable` is signalling to it's clients that it can be iterated over.
- It exposes the `GetEnumerator` method that returns an `IEnumerator`
	- It is the `IEnumerator`, not the `IEnumerable`, that is being iterated over.
- All standard collection types implement the `IEnumerable` interface.
- Remember, `IEnumerable` itself is not a collection, it doesn't store anything.

### Why would you implement the `IEnumerable` interface ?
- If my type requires a specific iteration approach.
- Think of a custom type that iterates over odd numbers only.
- Without implementing `IEnumerable`, the caller who wishes to iterate over our type would have to implement this logic themselves and this would have to implemented every place where iteration over our type is needed.
- More [info](https://divinesense.medium.com/how-to-implement-ienumerable-interface-696c17811d8a)

### What is the relationship between the `IEnumerator` and `IEnumerable` interfaces ?
- The `GetEnumerator` method of `IEnumerable` returns an `IEnumerator`.
- The `IEnumerator` is what get's iterated over.
- `IEnumerable` is what is enumerated, `IEnumerator` is what does the enumerating ([reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/csharp/comments/9ggm7y/comment/e644c6f/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web3x&utm_name=web3xcss&utm_term=1&utm_content=share_button)).
- When you implement `IEnumerable`, you will also need to implement `IEnumerator`
- This is generally done in a separate class which is then used in the `GetEnumerator` method.
- However, this extra class can be created implicitly by using the `yield` keyword inside the `GetEnumerator` method.

### How does `foreach` work internally ?
- `foreach` works on any type that has a `GetEnumerator` method that returns a type which has the `MoveNext` and `Current` members.
- This includes `IEnumerable` but also for our own custom type just so long as that type exposes a `GetEnumerator` method that returns an `IEnumerator` or returns a type which has the `MoveNext` and `Current` members. 

### How does `yield` work internally ?
- `yield` returns an `IEnumerator`.
- Using `yield` removes the need for an explicit extra class that implements `IEnumerator`.
- The `yield` keyword creates the enumerator for us.
- Almost always better to use yield unless we need to add custom logic for the iteration process.
- Explained in detail [here](https://divinesense.medium.com/how-to-implement-ienumerable-interface-696c17811d8a)

### When should you return an `IEnumerable` from a method rather than a concrete collection type ?
Remember, `IEnumerable` is not a collection, it does not store anything.
###### Deferred Execution
- Defer execution of internal logic until the caller starts iterating over it.
- This is how LINQ uses `IEnumerable` 
	- Query is executed only when the collection is iterated over or when certain methods are called (`ToList`,`Average`, `Count`, `Sum`, etc).
- Useful for large datasets.
###### Abstracting Implementation Details
- Can internally switch from returning a `List` to instead returning a `HashSet`, `Array` or some other collection without changing the return type of the method.
###### Caller Flexibility
- Allow caller to convert the result to a `List`, `Array` or some other collection.

# IComparable and IComparer
### What is the `IComparable` interface and why is it used ?
- Specify how instances of that class should be compared
- Used for custom sorting based on specific criteria.

### How is the `IComparable` interface implemented ?
- Exposes the `CompareTo(object obj)` method which accepts an object of the same class and returns an integer.
	- Less than 0 = calling instance comes before parameter object in sort order.
	- Zero = both are equal.
	- Greater than 0 = calling instance comes after parameter object in sort order.

### What is the `IComparer` interface and why is it used ?
- Defines a method for comparing two objects, potentially of two different types, allowing for customizable sorting depending on the specific needs of a collection. 
- Typically implemented in a *different class* then the objects being compared.
- Use Cases
	- Don't have access to the classes you want to compare
	- Comparing objects of a different type.
	- Useful when providing a different way to compare objects *without changing the class implementation itself*.
	- When you require an order different from the default sorting mechanism.

### How is the `IComparer` interface implemented ?
- Exposes the `Compare(object x, object y)` method which accepts two objects, potentially of a different type and returns an integer.
	- Less than 0 = `x` proceeds `y`.
	- Zero = both are equal.
	- Greater than 0 = `y` proceeds `x`.
- Typically done in a separate class then the ones being compared

### What is the difference between `IComparable` and `IComparer` ?
- `IComparable` 
	- Implemented directly in the class
	- Compares objects of *same type*.
- `IComparer` 
	- Implemented in a separate class
	- Can compare objects of *different types*.
- `IComparer` is useful when a class is closed to us in which case we can't use `IComparable`
- Why would you need to use an external class:
	- Suppose there is a `Student` class that in different conditions, has different comparison concepts. For example in one case, `Serial No` determines the comparison concept, and in another, the `Number`. How we should implement that?
	- This is where `IComparer` is needed

# IEquatable and IEqualityComparer
### What is the `IEquatable` interface, how is it implemented and why is it used ?
- Define a *strongly typed method* for determining the equality of instances of a type.
- Declares a strongly typed version of the `Equals` method that must be overwritten.
- Allows classes and structures to provide a method that can check equality based on specific fields or properties rather than relying solely on reference equality. 
- ==It should be implemented for any object that might be stored in a generic collection.==
	- The `IEquatable<T>` interface is used by generic collection objects such as `Dictionary<TKey,TValue>,` `List<T>`, and `LinkedList<T>` when testing for equality in such methods as `Contains`, `IndexOf`, `LastIndexOf`, and `Remove`. 
- Avoids boxing and casting (explained below).

### What is the `IEqualityComparer` interface, how is it implemented and why is it used ?
- Specify how two objects are considered equal.
- The primary methods to implement are:
	- `Equals(Object x, Object y)` 
		- For determining equality
	- `GetHashCode(Object obj)` 
		- For obtaining a hash code
- Useful for scenarios where `GetHashCode` and `Equals` are used are part of some operation.
- One common example is with hash based collections like `Dictionary` and `HashSet` that depend on `GetHashCode` and `Equals` for equality comparisons (when the key is an object).
- Another good example related to a Box class explained [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.collections.generic.iequalitycomparer-1?view=net-8.0#examples)

### How is `IEquatable` different from `IEqualityComparer` ?
- The distinction is in their intended use in equality comparisons.
- `IEquatable` is designed for objects to compare themselves with other objects of the same type, establishing a *self-contained method* of equality. 
- `IEqualityComparer` facilitates the external comparison of two instances of the same type *defined by an external class*, allowing for more flexible equality logic across various contexts.
- `IEqualityComparer<T>` is useful when a class is closed to us in which case we can't use `IEquatable`
- Why would you need to use an external class:
	- Suppose there is a `Student` class that in different conditions, has different equality concepts. For example in one case, `Serial No` determines the equality concept, and in another, the `Number`. How we should implement that? with Creating Equals1 and Equals2? It’s impossible because the base object and `IEquality<T>` have one Equals function.
	- This is where `IEqualityComparer`
- `IEquatable` requires only `Equals` to be overridden where as `IEqualityComparer` requires both `Equals` and `GetHashCode` to be overridden.

### How is `IEqualityComparer` different from `IComparer`?
- `IEqualityComparer` focuses on assessing whether two objects are considered equal.
- `IComparer` is used for ordering objects.

### Why implement the `IEqualityComparer` or `IEquatable` interfaces when you can just override the `Equals` method inherited from the `System.Object class` ?
- Because the the base class `Equals` method not strongly typed and can suffer from performance issues as a result.
- `IEqualityComparer` declares a strongly-typed version of the `Equals` method defined in the System.Object class (which is not strongly-typed).
- There is a need for a strongly typed `Equals` method because of performance issues: 
	- Avoid boxing of value types.
	- Casting for reference types.
- More info [here](https://sasan-salem.medium.com/mystery-of-equality-in-c-iequatable-t-iequalitycomparer-t-icomparable-t-icomparer-t-ab98bd2fe541)

# Collections
### What are the different collection types available and what are the use cases of each ?
###### Arrays
- Characteristics
	- Fixed-size
		- No appending or removing
	- Elements are known beforehand
	- Doesn't change
	- Frequent read
	- Memory usage and element access performance are crucial
- Examples
	- Bitmap Image
	- Byte Streams
		- Protocol Buffers, File Streams
###### Lists
- Characteristics
	- Unknown size
	- Frequent appending or removal
	- Searching, sorting and filtering
- Examples
	- Handling user input where input is unpredictable
	- Playlist for adding and deleting songs
###### HashSet
- Characteristics
	- Unique items
- Examples
	- Remove data duplication
	- Combine Data Sets
	- Other Set operations (Union, Intersect, etc)
###### Dictionaries
- Characteristics
	- Quick access
	- Map information
	- Caching
- Examples
	- Count occurrences of items
	- Map ID to name
	- Store application settings for easy retrieval
	- Cache commonly accessed information.
###### Queues
- Characteristics
	- FIFO
	- Enqueue, Dequeue
- Examples
	- Handling requests in a server, where each incoming request is queued and processed in the order they were received.
	- Multi-threaded environments
	- Resource sharing scenarios (printer jobs)
	- Data processing (processed in the order they arrive)
###### Stacks
- Characteristics
	- LIFO
	- Push, Pop
- Examples
	- Undo/Redo functionality
	- Browser History
	- Expression evaluation
	- Maze solving
	- Pathfinding

### What are the performance differences between the collection types ?
#### Arrays
###### Access
- O(1) index access
###### Search
- O(n)
###### Insertion/Deletion
- O(n)
	- Shifting elements
#### Lists
###### Access
- O(1) index access
###### Search
- O(n)
###### Insertion/Deletion
- O(n)
	- Shifting elements
#### Dictionaries/HashSets
###### Access
- O(1) for best and average case
- O(n) worse case
	- All items have the same hash (collision)
###### Insertion/Deletion
- O(1) for best and average case
- O(n) worse case
	- All items have the same hash (collision)
#### Queues
###### Access
- O(1)
	- Accessing first item
###### Insertion/Deletion
- O(1)
	- Add to end of Queue
#### Stacks
###### Access
- O(1)
	- Accessing last item
###### Insertion/Deletion
- O(1)
	- Add to start of Queue

### Explain the difference between `ReadOnlyCollection` and `ImmutableList` in C# collections, and when would you use one over the other ?
- `ReadOnlyCollection<T>`
	- Explained:
		- Wrapper around an *existing* collection that provides a read-only view, preventing modifications to the underlying collection.
		- However, *the underlying collection itself can still be changed, which will be visible through the `ReadOnlyCollection<T>` view*. 
	- Use case: 
		- Useful when you want to prevent specific portions of your code (e.g., a method or a class consumer) from modifying a collection, while still allowing the original collection to change as needed.
- `ImmutableList<T>`
	- Explained:
		- This is an inherently immutable collection that represents an unmodifiable list. Once created, its content cannot change. 
		- Any operation that appears to modify the collection (e.g., adding or removing an element) will instead return a new instance with the relevant changes. 
	- Use Case: 
		- You need a collection that remains completely unchanged when shared across multiple components, ensuring data correctness and simplifying concurrent programming.
- Use `ReadOnlyCollection<T>`:
	- You need a read-only view of an existing mutable collection. 
- Use `ImmutableList<T>`:
	- You need a truly immutable collection that can be safely shared and remains unchanged throughout its lifetime.

### Explain the differences and use cases between `IEnumerable`, `ICollection`, and `IList` interfaces in C# Collections
###### IEnumerable: 
- Iterate through a collection without modifying its elements. 
- The `GetEnumerator` method returns an `IEnumerator` to traverse the collection’s elements. 
- Any collection that requires enumeration should implement this interface.
###### ICollection: 
- Extends `IEnumerable<T>` and adds basic collection functionality like adding, removing, and checking if an element is present in the collection. 
- It also defines additional properties for the collection, like `Count` and `IsReadOnly`. 
- Use `ICollection<T>` when you need more control over collection manipulation than just iterating.
###### IList: 
- Extends `ICollection<T>` and adds the ability to insert, remove, and update elements *at specific indices in the collection*. 
- It also provides the ability to retrieve elements by index using the indexer property. 
- Use `IList<T>` when you need even more control over the collection, such as ordered elements and performing operations by index.


# Lists
### How does a `List` internally store it's elements ?
- Dynamic array
	- Changes size based on the number of elements it holds.
- Initial capacity is 4
- Doubles the current size each time the capacity is breached.

### What performance issues can arise with a `List` when there is too many removal operations ?
- The item must be located which is `O(n)`
	- Unless the index is already known in which case its `O(1)`.
- After item is removed, reshuffling needs to occur `O(n)`. 
- Use `RemoveAt()` when index is known, otherwise, use `Remove()`
- Therefore, in the general case, the total time complexity for removal is either `O(n) + O(n)` or `O(n) + O(1)` (which are both shortened to `O(n)`) for `Remove` and `RemoveAt` respectively.

### How can you optimize the performance of a List ?
- By specifying an initial capacity when creating a List, developers can minimize the number of resizing operations and improve performance, especially for large collections. 

### What is an `ArrayList` and how does it differ from `List<T>` ?
- `List<T>` supports storing values of a specific type whereas `ArrayList` simple stores a list of object references.
- `ArrayList` belongs to the days that C# didn't have generics. It's deprecated in favour of `List<T>`.
- You shouldn't use `ArrayList` in new code that targets `.NET` >= 2.0 unless you have to interface with an old API that uses it.
- `ArrayList` can lead to boxing and unboxing when dealing with value types.

# Hash Based Collections
### What is a Hash Table ?
- An array of linked lists where the index of that array is computed based on a hashing algorithm.
- The linked list functionality is used to cover for hash collisions.

### How does a `HashSet<T>` work internally ?
- Uses a **hash table** internally.
- Each index or bucket has a linked list to cover hash collisions.
- Each value of type `T` that is inserted into the `HashSet` will use the hashing algorithm to compute the index or bucket into which that value will be inserted. 
- If an item is already stored there *that does not equal the current value being inserted*, then the new value is appended to the linked list stored at this index.\

### How does a `Dictionary<K,V>` work internally ?
- Similar to `HashSet<T>` (see above).
- With a `HashSet`, the value is what is stored into the bucket and also what is used to compute the hash value.
- But with a `Dictionary<K,V>`, the value *V* is what is stored in the bucket but the key *K* is what computes the index or bucket to where *V* is stored. 

# Sorted Collections
### What is a `SortedList` and what is it's use case ?
- Represents a collection of key/value pairs that are sorted by the keys and are accessible by key and by index
- Very similar to `Dictionary` and `SortedDictionary`.
```c#
SortedList mySL = new SortedList();
mySL.Add("Third", "!");
mySL.Add("Second", "World");
mySL.Add("First", "Hello");
```

### What is a `SortedDictionary` and what is it's use case ?
- Represents a collection of key/value pairs that are sorted on the key
```c#
var openWith = new SortedDictionary<string, string>();

// Add some elements to the dictionary. There are no
// duplicate keys, but some of the values are duplicates.
openWith.Add("txt", "notepad.exe");
openWith.Add("bmp", "paint.exe");
openWith.Add("dib", "paint.exe");
openWith.Add("rtf", "wordpad.exe");
```
- Use Cases
	- Need the dictionary to be sorted

### What is a `SortedSet` and what is it's use case ?
- Represents a collection of unique objects that is maintained in sorted order.
```c#
var names = new SortedSet<string>();
names.Add("Kevin");
names.Add("Finton");
names.Add("John");

foreach (string name in names) 
{ 
	Console.WriteLine(name); 
}

// prints
	// Finton
	// John
	// Kevin
```
- Use Cases
	- Need the HashSet to be sorted

### What are the performance differences between the `Dictionary` and `HashSet` and their sorted counterparts (`SortedDictionary`, `SortedSet`)
- Internal Structure
	- `SortedDictionary`/`SortedSet` are **tree** based collections (red-black tree).
	- `Dictionary`/`HashSet` uses a **hash table**.
- Lookup, insertion, and removal operations:
	- `SortedDictionary`/`SortedSet` O(log n).
	- `Dictionary`/`HashSet` O(1).
- Memory consumption:
	- Tree-based collections tend to have higher memory consumption than hash-based collections\

### What is the difference between a `SortedList` and `SortedDictionary` and when would you use each ?
- [Source](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/935621/whats-the-difference-between-sortedlist-and-sorteddictionary)
- Both use a binary search tree with `O(log n)` retrieval.
- Differences:
	- `SortedList` uses arrays internally, `SortedDictionary` uses a **Red-black tree**.
	- `SortedList` has O(n) insertion/removal, `SortedDictionary` O(log n).
- Benchmarks
	- `SortedList` uses less memory than `SortedDictionary`.
	- If the list is populated all at once from sorted data, `SortedList` is faster than `SortedDictionary`.
- Use `SortedDictionary`
	- More inserts and delete operations are required.
	- Data in un-ordered.
	- Key access is enough and index access is not required.
	- Memory is not a bottleneck.
- Use `SortedList`
	- More lookups and less inserts/deletes.
	- Data is already sorted (if not all, most).
	- Index access is required.
	- Memory is an overhead.

### How does a `SortedList<TKey, TValue>` work internally ?
- Maintains two arrays
	- Key array
	- Value array
- Each value in the Key array corresponds to an index in the Value array.
- Search
	- Perform a binary search on the Key array. 
	- Each Key array item accessed during the binary search is then used to access the associated item in the Value array to see if that value matches.
- Insertion 
	- Perform search (described above) to locate the correct index for a new key in the sorted Key array
	- Adjust Key array to make space for new entry
	- Adjust Value array to make space for new entry
- Deletion
	- Same as insertion but Key and Value arrays are adjusted by shifting the remaining values to close the gap.

### How does a `SortedDictionary` and `SortedSet` work internally ?
- Implemented as a self-balancing binary search tree (typically a [[red-black tree]]). 
- This tree structure enables the dictionary to maintain order based on the key, and ensures that operations like insertion, deletion, and search have O(log n) time complexity.

# Performance
### Explain the importance of immutability in relation to Collections 
###### Thread-safety
- Safely accessed and shared without needing to implement synchronization mechanisms since their state can't be changed.
###### Predictable Behaviour
- Avoid unexpected side-effects because the state of the collection can't change.

### What are potential issues that can arise when using default comparison methods for complex types in C# Collections, and how would you address them ?
###### Problems
- Not utilising the unique characteristics of the complex type can lead to hash collisions which will cause poor performance.
- Inconsistency with ordering 
- Two instances may not match when they should or match when they shouldn't.
###### Solutions
- Override `GetHashCode` and `Equals` to reduce hash collisions
- Implement custom comparison methods that include all properties in the comparison.

### What are some strategies for optimizing the operation of large collections in a C# application, especially in terms of memory consumption and GC pressure ?
###### Array usage:
- Collection size is fixed then utilize arrays instead of Lists to save memory overhead
###### Capacity Planning:
- For dynamic collections like `List<T>` and `Dictionary<K,V>`, set the initial capacity on approximate collection size to avoid unnecessary operations.
###### Value types:
- Use value types instead of reference types where applicable which doesn't require garbage collection.
- However, avoid `structs` when cost of copying the data is large.
###### Immutable collections:
- For read-only collections, consider using immutable collections like `ImmutableArray<T>` or `ImmutableList<T>` which will optimize memory sharing and avoid unnecessary GC operations.
###### Lazy loading:
- Don't load all data into memory if not all is being used
- Retrieve data later on-demand using lazy loading.
###### Filtering data:
- Apply filters to your data before loading it into the collection if you are only interested in a subset of items.
###### Memory pooling:
- Use memory pooling techniques such as `ArrayPool<T>` to reuse collections or objects.
