### What is the difference between async calls and parallel calls and give an example ?
- **Asynchronous** means it is *non-blocking*, you execute it without waiting for it to complete and carry on with other things. 
- **Parallelism** means to run multiple things *at the same time*, in parallel.
- Take for example rendering frames of a 3D animation. 
	- To render the animation takes a long time so if you were to launch that render from within your animation editing software you would make sure it was running asynchronously so it didn't lock up your UI and you could continue doing other things.
	- Now, each frame of that animation can also be considered as an individual task. If we have multiple CPUs/Cores or multiple machines available, we can render multiple frames in parallel to speed up the overall workload.

### What is the Task Parallel Library (TPL) ?
- A set of public types and APIs in the .NET Framework designed to make parallel and asynchronous programming more accessible and efficient. 
- It abstracts the complexity of managing threads, making it easier for developers to write concurrent and parallel code.
- Main classes of the TPL:
	- `Task`
		- Represents an asynchronous operation that can be awaited or run concurrently
	- `Task<TResult>`
		- Same as `Task` but returns a result upon completion.
	- `Parallel`:
		- Provides methods like `Parallel.For`, `Parallel.ForEach`, and `Parallel.Invoke` to easily perform parallel iterations over collections or execute a set of actions in parallel.

### What is the purpose of the `async/await` functionality ?
- Prior to async and await, asynchronous programming in .NET often required using callback methods, event handlers, or the Task Parallel Library (TPL), which could lead to complex and hard-to-maintain code.
- The purpose of async and await in .NET is to simplify asynchronous programming, allowing developers to write code that performs asynchronous operations in a way that looks and feels like synchronous code.

### What are the rules when using the `async`/`await` keywords ?
- A method must be marked as `async` if the method implementation uses the `await` keyword.
- An `async` method must be return one of the following
	- `Task`
	- `Task<TResult>`
	- `ValueTask<TResult>`
	- `void`

### Explain the `Task` and `Task<T>` classes ?
- Both represent an asynchronous operation that can be awaited or run concurrently, with `Task<T>` having the added benefit of returning a result from the operation.
- The `Task` or `Task<T>` return types don't mean that the method is asynchronous. They signal to the caller that it *usually* executes asynchronously but it doesn't mean that it is asynchronous. The `async` keyword is used to signal that a method is asynchronous. 
- You don't have to `await` a method call that returns a `Task`/`Task<T>` either (even if it's tagged with the `async` keyword).

### Explain the `ValueTask<T>` class ?
- Represents a *potential* asynchronous operation that can either complete synchronously or asynchronously.
- `ValueTask<T>` is a *value type*.
- Can only be awaited once
- Primarily used in high performance applications to reduce the overhead associated with creating a `Task<T>` object in situations where the result of an asynchronous operation is often available synchronously.
- Adds complexity to your code especially with regard to ensuring it is awaited or the result is observed

### What is the difference between `Task<TResult>` and `ValueTask<TResult>` and when to use each ?
- `Task<TResult>`
	- Reference type
	- Can represent only asynchronous operations
	- Can be awaited multiple times
- `ValueTask<TResult>`
	- Value type
	- Can represent a synchronous or asynchronous operation
	- Can only be awaited once
- Use Cases
	- `Task<TResult>`
		- Used in most scenarios
		- Require awaiting multiple times
	- `ValueTask<TResult>`
		- When all the following conditions are true
			- Performance is critical 
			- Operation *can* be synchronous
			- Only need to await once

### What is the difference between `async Task` and `async void` ?
- `async Task` no result, but you can still await it to know when it has run to completion.
- `async void` you have no result, can't await it and you have no way of knowing when the task has completed.

### When to use `async void` ?
- Fire and forget
- Mainly used for UI event handlers (e.g. `OnButtonClick`)
- *Best avoided in most scenarios*

### Why return a `Task`/`Task<T>` from a method without `async` ?
- Make it compatible with asynchronous code.
	- A method may have a conditional path that uses the await keyword forcing the method to return `Task`/`Task<T>`. But the other code path would then need to return Task to conform to this.
- Conform to a method signature in a library that requires returning a `Task`/`Task<T>`
- `async` causes the compiler to generate additional state machine code which can cause unnecessary overhead.
- More info [here](https://chatgpt.com/c/e66b2653-4129-4bfd-af0b-0625709295a8)