### What is the difference between Managed and Unmanaged code ?
- **Managed** code runs within a runtime environment, providing automatic memory management and high-level abstractions.
	- The code is developed using the Common Language Runtime (CLR) of the .NET framework is known as Managed Code
- **Unmanaged** code runs directly on the hardware, giving the developer more control but requiring manual memory and pointers management.
	- These are typically low-level programming languages, such as C or C++, which are compiled into native machine code and executed by the CPU itself.

### What is an Assembly ?
- An assembly is a collection of types and resources that are built to work together and form a logical unit of functionality. 
- Assemblies take the form of executable (`.exe`) or dynamic link library (`.dll`) files, and are the building blocks of .NET applications.
- Assemblies provide the Common Language Runtime with the information it needs to be aware of type implementations. 
	- To the runtime, a type doesn't exist outside the context of an assembly.

### What is an Assembly Manifest ?
- Every assembly has an assembly manifest file that is similar to a table of contents.
- This manifest is generally embedded into the file itself ([ChatGPT source](https://chatgpt.com/c/a34947c1-1725-4b45-9384-093b078417be)).
- The assembly manifest contains:
	- The assembly's **identity** (its name and version).
	- A file table describing all the other **files that make up the assembly**, such as other assemblies you created that your .exe or .dll file relies on.
	- An assembly reference list, which is a **list of all external dependencies**, such as .dlls or other files.

### Explain the different types of Assembly ?
- **Private Assembly**
	- It is accessible only to the application.
	- We need to copy this private assembly into all application folders where we want to use that assembly.
- **Shared** or **Public Assembly**
	- It can be shared by multiple applications.
	- Public assembly does not require copying separately into all application folders. Only one copy of public assembly is required at the system level, we can use the same copy by multiple applications.
	- It is installed in the *Global Assembly Cache(GAC)*.

### What is a Global Assembly Cache (GSC) ?
- Each computer where the Common Language Runtime is installed has a machine-wide code cache called the Global Assembly Cache. 
- The Global Assembly Cache stores assemblies specifically designated to be shared by several applications on the computer.

### What is the Garbage Collector in C# ?
- The garbage collector is responsible for *identifying and reclaiming* memory occupied by objects that are *no longer accessible* or in use.

### Explain Generations in Garbage Collection ?
- [[Garbage Collection#Generations|Generations]]

### Explain the Garbage Collection Process ?
- [[Garbage Collection#Garbage Collection Process|Garbage Collection Process]]

### What Triggers Garbage Collection ?
- [[Garbage Collection#What Triggers Garbage Collection ?|What Triggers Garbage Collection]]

### How is an Object Graph Traversed ?
- [[Garbage Collection#Object Graph Traversal|Object Graph Traversal]]

### What is boxing and unboxing in .NET?
###### Boxing
- Boxing a value type allocates an object instance on the heap and *copies the value* into the new object.
- Boxing is **implicit** (compiler does it for us)
###### Unboxing
- Unboxing is the conversion from 
	- The type `Object` to a `Value Type`
	- An `Interface` type to a `Value Type` that implements the interface.
- Unboxing is **explicit**

```csharp
int i = 123;
object o = i;  // boxing
i = (int)o;    // unboxing
```

### Why is too much boxing of a `Value Type` a bad idea but not for a `Reference Type` ?
- Boxing allocates on the heap and are garbage-collected
- Therefore, too much boxing and unboxing can have a negative impact on the heap, the garbage collector, and ultimately the performance of the application.
- In contrast, no such boxing occurs when reference types are cast.

### What is the Stack and the Heap ?
Memory is divided into two regions: the Stack and the Heap.
###### Stack
- The stack is a region of memory that is used to store local variables and function call information.
- Fast allocate and deallocate.
- Limited size
- Function Called: 
	- A new block of memory is allocated on the stack for that function’s local variables and parameters. 
- Function Returns:
	- This block of memory is deallocated and the stack pointer moves back to the previous function’s block of memory.
###### Heap
- The heap is a region of memory that is used to store dynamic objects created using the `new` keyword. 
- It is called a “heap” because it is not organized in a particular order and can be accessed randomly.
- When an object is no longer needed, it is the responsibility of the garbage collector to deallocate the memory and reclaim it for future use.
- More flexible then Stack
- Harder to allocate and deallocate

### What is the Large Object Heap (LOH) and the Small Object Heap (SOH) ?
###### LOH
- The Large Object Heap (LOH) is a dedicated area of memory used for storing large objects.
- The LOH is specifically designed to handle objects that exceed the current threshold size of 85,000 bytes.
- Has different memory management characteristics then SOH
	- Not subject to compaction during garbage collection.
###### SOH
- This is where objects that are smaller then the threshold size are stored

### What is a `.exe` file ?
- An executable file that runs the application for which it is designed.
- An EXE is produced when we build an application in .NET.
- The EXE file holds CIL code that is produced when .NET framework compiles our code.

### What is a `.dll` file ?
- Dynamic Link Library
- A DLL is a library that contains code and data that can be used by more than one program at the same time.
- DLLs are not directly executable.
- An application can consist of many DLLs and those DLLs can be shared with other programs and applications.
- Linked with the `.exe` at compile time

### What is a `.lib` file ?
- Static library.
- Same as`.dll` files but are linked to the `exe` at run-time.

### What is Serialization ?
- Converting an object into a different format to store it on to a file, database, memory or sending it over a network.

### Explain the different types of Serialization
###### Binary serialization
- To save the state of the object in binary format.
###### XML serialization
- To save the state of the object in XML format.
###### JSON serialization
- To save the state of the object in JSON format.

### What is Object Pooling and what are some of it's Use Cases ?
#### Definition
- Object pooling is a software design pattern where a *pool of reusable objects is created and maintained*. 
- Instead of creating and destroying objects frequently, the pool manages a set of initialized objects that can be reused as needed, improving performance by reducing the overhead of object creation and destruction.
- When an object is requested, it’s taken from the pool; when it’s no longer needed, it’s returned to the pool rather than being destroyed. 
- This reduces the overhead of creating and destroying objects, especially in situations where the cost of creating objects is high, such as network connections or heavy computational objects.
#### Use Cases
###### Database Connection Pooling
- Reusing connections to a database rather than creating and closing them repeatedly can improve performance in database-intensive applications.
###### Thread Pooling
- Managing a pool of threads allows for better resource management in applications that frequently perform concurrent tasks, such as web servers or application servers.
###### Resource Pooling in Web Servers
- Reusing network sockets or connections in networking applications can reduce overhead and improve performance, especially in high-traffic systems.




