[Source](https://www.hellointerview.com/learn/system-design/in-a-hurry/delivery)

#### 1. Functional Requirements
###### Overview
- Phrased as 
	- "Users/Clients should be able to..."
- Core features
	- *Targeted and prioritised*
	- Don't gather a huge list
- Back and forth with interviewer
	- "does the system need to do X?"
	- "what would happen if Y?"
###### Twitter Example 
- Users should be able to post tweets
- Users should be able to follow other users
- Users should be able to see tweets from users they follow


#### 2. Non-functional Requirements
###### Overview
- System Qualities
- Phrased as:
	- "The system should be able to..."
	- "The system should be...".
- Be specific
	- "the search should return in 100ms" is preferable to "the search should be fast."
- Not enough to just list the *-ilities* e.g. scalability, availability, durability.
	- *Look for uniqueness in the system at hand*
		- For example, Ticketmaster and double bookings.


#### 3. Core Entities
###### Overview
- Identify the *core* entities
- Not the entire data model
	- You don't know what you don't know.
- Start small and add to list while iterating.
###### Twitter Example 
- User
- Tweet
- Follow


#### 4. API or System Interfaces
###### Overview
- Contract between system and users/clients.
- **REST** vs **GraphQL** vs **gRPC**
- Don't overthink. 
	- Bias towards creating a REST API.
- Maps directly to the functional requirements you've already identified (but not always!).
	- Use core entities you discovered in last step
- Be careful about security when illustrating:
	- Don't put `userId` in `POST` request
		- It's taken from authentication token
###### Twitter Example (REST)
``` json
POST /v1/tweet 
body: { 
	"text": string 
} 

GET /v1/tweet/:tweetId -> Tweet 

POST /v1/follow/:userId 

GET /v1/feed -> Tweet[]
```


#### 5. Data Flow
- Data-processing systems should illustrate high level sequence of actions or processes that the system performs on the inputs to produce the desired outputs. 
- If your system doesn't involve a long sequence of actions, skip this!
- Can be a simple list.


#### 6. High Level Design

###### Overview
- Use all gathered information thus far to start drawing out the high-level architecture.
- Using boxes to represent components and arrows to represent component interaction.
- Components are basic building blocks like servers, databases, caches, etc. 
- Use your API design as a basis here
	- Start explanation from the request ending with the response.
- Illustrate each API request (PUT, GET, etc)
- Explain your thought process as your drawing
- Use certain moments to expand further
	- When request reaches database layer, expand on the columns needed
		- Don't document every column, only whats relevant to design
	- Avoid complexity at this stage (safe that for Deep Dive)
###### Twitter Example
- Web [Image](https://d248djf5mc6iku.cloudfront.net/excalidraw/446dc33f64ebc27e977d6302b6532c1e)


#### 7. Deep Dive
- Harden your design through a number of iterations.
- We want to ensure that:
	- It meets all of your non-functional requirements 
	- Addresses edge cases 
	- Identify and address issues and bottlenecks
	- Improving the design based on probes from your interviewer.
- This is where you add things like Load Balancer etc.
- Give your interviewer room to ask questions and probe your design.