[Source](https://www.hellointerview.com/learn/system-design/in-a-hurry/core-concepts)

### Scaling
- Check [[Scaling]]
- Many systems can scale vertically to a surprising degree.
- Vertical scaling actually requires significantly less incremental complexity. 
- If you can estimate your workload and determine that you can scale vertically for the foreseeable future, this is often a better solution than horizontal scaling. 
- Inexperienced candidates tend to make two mistakes: 
	1. They leap to horizontal scaling to solve any performance problem, even when it's not necessary.
	2. They don't consider the implications of horizontal scaling on the rest of the system. When you encounter a scaling bottleneck, make sure you're not throwing machines at a poor design.

### Work Distribution (Load Balancing)
- Check [[Load Balancer]]
- Work distribution needs to try to keep load on the system as even as possible.
- The scalability of your system ultimately depends on how effectively you can remediate this.

### Data Distribution
- You'll also need to consider how to distribute data across the system:
	- Keeping data in-memory on the node that's processing the request.
	- Keeping data in a database that's shared across all nodes.
- Look for ways to partition your data such that a single node can access the data it needs without needing to talk to another node.
- If your system design problem involves geography, there's a good chance you have the option to partition by some sort of REGION_ID. For many systems that involve physical locations, this is a great way to scale because for many problems a given user will only be concerned with data in or around a particular location (e.g. a user in the US doesn't need to know about data in Europe).

### Consistency
- Check [[Consistency]]
- You'll need to be prepared to discuss how you're going to keep your data consistent.
- Many systems will actually blend strong and weak consistency in different parts of the system. For example, on an e-commerce site the item details might be eventually consistent (if you update the description of an item, it's okay if it takes a few minutes for the description to update on the product page) but the inventory count needs to be strongly consistent (if you sell an item, it's not okay for another customer to buy the same unit).

### Locking
- Check [[Locking]]
- In our system we may have shared resources which can only be accessed by one client at a time.
- In most system design interviews, you'll be forced to contend with locks when you consider [[race condition]]s.

### Indexing
- Check [[Indexing]]
- Most questions of indexing will happen inside your database. 

### Communication Protocols
- You'll be asked to reason about the communication protocols you'll use to build your system.
- Internally, for a typical microservice application which constitutes 90%+ of system design problems, either [[HTTP]](S) or [[gRPC]] will do the job. Don't make things complicated.
- Most system design interviews don't deal with clients that need to have custom, high-performance protocols.
	- Most systems can be built with a combination of [[HTTP]](S), [[SSE]] or [[long polling]], and [[Websockets]].
- From a system design perspective, websockets can be challenging because you need to maintain the connection between client and server. This can be a challenge for load balancers and firewalls, and it can be a challenge for your server to maintain many open connections.

### Security
- While system design interviews are rarely going to require you to do detailed security testing of your design, they are looking for you to emphasise security where appropriate. This means that you should be prepared to discuss how you'll secure your system at every level.
#####      Authentication / Authorization
- Your interviewer may want you to discuss the finer details like how specific entities are secured, but often it's sufficient to say "My API Gateway will handle authentication and authorization".
#####      Encryption
- When handling sensitive data, you want to cover data in transit and data in storage:
	- Transit
		- HTTPS is SSL/TSL protocol encrypts traffic in transit and is the standard for web.
	- Storage
		- Use database that supports encryption/decryption

### Monitoring
- Once you've designed your system, some interviewers will ask you to discuss how you'll monitor it. 
- The idea here is simple: candidates who understand monitoring are more likely to have experience with actual systems in production. 
- Monitoring real systems is also a great way to learn about how systems actually scale (and break).
- **Application-level monitoring** is often the most important level of monitoring for product design interviews.
