### What different approaches can be used to retain state between different HTTP requests ? 
###### Cookies
- Stored in the users browser
- Sent with every request
- Should only contain some unique identifier that can be utilised by the backend.
- Validated by the backend application due to possible tampering.
- Used for personalization, where content is customized for a known user (e.g. preferred website background color)
###### Session State
- Maintains session state by providing a cookie to the client that contains a session ID. 
- The cookie session ID:
	- Is sent to the app with each request.
	- Is used by the app to fetch the session data.
- *Session is deleted when the browser ends*
- Don't store sensitive data in session state as user may forget to close browser after they have left the machine.
###### TempData
- Used for redirection purposes when data is required for more than a single request.
- Implemented by TempData providers using either **cookies** or **session state**.
###### Query Strings
- A limited amount of data can be passed from one request to another by adding it to the new request's query string. 
- Useful for capturing state in a persistent manner that allows links with embedded state to be shared through email or social networks. 
- Never use query strings for sensitive data.
###### Hidden Fields
- Data can be saved in hidden form fields and posted back on the next request. 
- This is common in multi-page forms. 
- Because the client can potentially tamper with the data, the app must always revalidate the data stored in hidden fields.
###### Cache
- Cached data isn't associated with a specific request, user, or session. 
- Do not cache user-specific data that may be retrieved by other user requests.

### What are the common return types for an MVC action and what are their pros and cons ?
###### Recap
- Specific Type
	- Pros
		- Swagger documentation
	- Cons
		- Can't return other response codes
		- Can't return errors
- `IActionResult`
	- Pros
		- Can return other response codes
			- Uses base helper methods like `Ok`, `NotFound`, etc
		- Consistent return type for every method
	- Cons
		- Have to add `ProductResponseType` attribute with both the `StatsCodes` and `Type` parameters defined.
			- Only way swagger will understand.
- `ActionResult<T>`
	- Most commonly used
	- Pros
		- Pros of Specific Type and `IActionResult`
	- Cons
		- Still have to use `ProduceResponseType` but only need to define `StatusCodes`.
###### Detailed
- In each below type, you can return an async method which returns a `Task` of that type.
- Specific Type
	- Primitive (int, string)
	- Complex (Author, Customer, Order)
	- Collections (`List<T>`, `Dictionary<T>`)
	- `IEnumerable<T>`, `IAsyncEnumerable<T>`
		- Used to avoid buffering the entire list on the server and sending it back
		- Might want to send one row back per iteration using yield.
		- Avoid using `IEnumerable<T>` because it is synchronous and may cause slow performance due to thread pool starvation. 
			- Use `IAsyncEnumerable<T>` instead.
	- Pros
		- Easily understood by automated documentation tools like Swashbuckle or NSwag
	- Cons
		- Can't directly return other response codes or types *including Exceptions*
- `IActionResult`
	- Pros
		- Works with helper methods exposed by base controller class
			- Ok()
			- NotFound()
			- BadRequest()
			- Created()
		- Consistent return type for every method
		- Can return the actual result or exceptions too
	- Cons
		- Not strongly typed
			- Requires method attributes to inform Swagger of supported responses
				- `ProduceResponseType(StatusCodes.Status201Created, Type=typeof(AuthorDto))`
- `ActionResult<T>`
	- Combination of **Specific Type** and `IActionResult`.
	- ==Recommended result type used for every scenario==
	- Pros
		- Pros of each
		- When returning T, it automatically gets converted to `return new ObjectResult(T)`
	- Cons
		- Still have to use `ProduceResponseType` but only need to define `StatusCodes`.

### Why make your controller actions `async` ?
- ASP.NET Core apps should be designed to process many requests simultaneously.
- Asynchronous APIs allow a small pool of threads to handle thousands of concurrent requests by not waiting on blocking calls. 
- Rather than waiting on a long-running synchronous task to complete, the thread can work on another request.
- Network calls and database access are slow, and our thread could be doing other things while waiting for the response. 
- The sync call will block the thread and not allow anything else to happen until the response has been received. 
- Meanwhile the async call suspends itself from the thread while waiting for the response, allowing the application to do other things (e.g respond to other people calling our API) until the response has been received, at which point it resumes and carries on with the rest of the method.

### What is middleware in ASP.NET Core and what's it's purpose ?
###### Recap
- Processes HTTP requests and generates response.
- Perform tasks such as Authentication, Authorization, Logging during processing
- Tasks are performed in order.
- Customizable by developer
###### Detailed
- Middleware in ASP.NET Core is a software component responsible for processing requests and generating responses in the web application pipeline.
- Middleware can perform various tasks, such as authentication and authorization, modifying request or response headers, handling errors and exceptions, and executing asynchronous code.
- The primary purpose of middleware is to provide a modular way of processing HTTP requests and responses, allowing developers to add, remove, or reorder middleware components in the pipeline based on their specific needs
