### What is a Delegate ?
- A delegate is a type that represents references to methods with a particular parameter list and return type. 
- When you instantiate a delegate, you can associate its instance with any method with a compatible signature and return type. 
- You can invoke the method through the delegate instance.

### What is an Abstract class and when would you use it ?
- A special type of class that cannot be instantiated.
- Used to defined a *common interface* but also provide *shared functionality* that derived classes can use or *override*.

### What is the difference between an Abstract class and an Interface?
- Fields
- State
- Constructors
- Access Modifiers
- Default Implementation

### What is Method Hiding/Shadowing in inheritance and why would you use it ?
###### Definition
- Hides the base class method from the normal inherited method call chain.
- Rules
	- Same method name
	- Optional different parameter list and/or return type.
	- `new` keyword in derived.
	- `virtual` or `abstract` in base
###### Purpose
- Need a completely new implementation.
- Some reason explained [here](https://stackoverflow.com/a/14461811/17385921) although didn't quite get it.

### Why is there a need for Encapsulation ?
- The idea behind encapsulation is to *keep the implementation details of a class hidden* from the outside world, and to only expose a public interface that allows users to interact with the class in a controlled and safe manner. 
- This helps to promote modularity, maintainability, and flexibility in the design of software systems.

### Explain some use cases of a `private constructor`
- [[Private Constructor#Private Constructor Use Cases|Private Constructor Use Cases]]

### In a parent-child class chain, which constructor is called first ?
- The constructor of the base class or parent class is called first.

### What is the difference between method overriding and method overloading ?
- **Method Overloading** means creating multiple methods in a class with the same name but different parameters
	- Also known as compile-time (or static) polymorphism
- **Method Overriding** involves defining a different implementation of the same method (with the same parameters) in inherited classes.
	- Some use cases explained [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/csharp/comments/12fbb6a/comment/jfera90/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web3x&utm_name=web3xcss&utm_term=1&utm_content=share_button)

### Can you override and/or overload a constructor ?
- You can overload a constructor but cannot override it. 
- This is because the parent classes constructor is still called even when the derived class declares it's own constructor.

### What is Dependency Injection and what are it's benefits ?
###### Overview
- Separate creation logic from the class.
- Messy nature of changing requirements.
- DI container is responsible for creating the classes that your class depends on.
- Dependent classes can be declared in the constructor.
###### Benefits
- If a requirement change occurs that is related to a dependent class of your class, *then your class does not have to change*.
- *Mock* out dependencies for testing purposes without having to instantiate a huge chain of dependencies.

### What are Dependency Injection Containers or Frameworks ?
- A framework for facilitating DI which includes:
	- Instantiates and configuring dependent objects
	- Manages the lifetime of the objects
- You just request the type you need in your classes constructor and the DI framework will inject the appropriate dependency.
- Before DI containers came along, you'd have separate classes dedicated to creating the right instances. Common patterns included to either use factory classes, or the Service Locator Pattern. The downside to these approaches was that they were heavy, in that you still had to implement the construction of all of your classes.

### Explain the different approaches to Dependency Injection and when each approach should be used ?
###### Constructor Injection
- Pass the dependent classes via the classes constructor.
###### Method Injection
- Pass the dependent classes via the method of class.
- Use Cases
	- The consumer of dependency can vary with each method call.
- More info [here](https://freecontent.manning.com/understanding-method-injection/)
###### Property Injection
- Pass the dependent classes via a public property of a class.
- Rarely used. Only when dealing with frameworks or situations where constructor injection and method injection is not possible or convenient.

### What is Dependency Inversion or Inversion of Control and how does it relate to Dependency Injection ?
- Dependency Inversion is a design *principle* that suggests 
	- Classes/Modules should **depend on abstractions**. 
	- Abstractions should not depend on details but **details should depend on abstractions**.
- Dependency Injection is a pattern that implements the Dependency Inversion principle.
- It involves supplying the dependencies of a class from the outside rather than creating them within the class. 
- This can be achieved through constructor injection, method injection, or property injection.

### What is Invariance in OOP ?
- Type parameter can only accept the exact type specified and not any of its derived or base types.
- The default behaviour when it comes to type compatibility. 

### What is Covariance and how is it implemented ?
- A more derived type can be used in place of a more generic type (opposite is not true).
- Covariance rules:
	- Only works on interfaces and delegates *but not classes*.
	- Only be used as a return type and not a method parameter
- Implementation approaches:
	- Use the `out` type modifier.
	- Use the `where` keyword
```c#
public interface IAnimal {}
public class Dog : IAnimal {}
public class Cat : IAnimal {}

// out type modifier
public interface IExampleOut<out T>
{
	T DoSomething();
}

public interface IExampleWhere<T> where T : IAnimal
{
	T DoSomething();
}
```
- Example below shows an object that is instantiated with a more derived type (`strings`) is assigned to an object instantiated with a less derived type (`objects`) (NOTE this may seem confusing).
```c#
IEnumerable<string> strings = new List<string>();
IEnumerable<object> objects = strings;
```

### What is Contravariance and how is it implemented ?
- A more generic type can be used in place of a more derived type (opposite is not true).
- Rules:
	- Only works on interfaces and delegates *but not classes*.
	- Only be used as a method parameter and not a return type
- Use the `in` type modifier to implement covariance
```c#
public delegate void DContravariant<in T>(T t); 
```
- Example below shows an object that is instantiated with a less derived type (`actObject`) is assigned to an object instantiated with a more derived type (`actString`) (NOTE this may seem confusing).
```c#
static void SetObject(object o) { }

Action<object> actObject = SetObject;
Action<string> actString = actObject;  
```

### When to use an `abstract class` instead of an `interface` and vice versa ?
- Abstract class:
	- Shared state and functionality is needed among derived types
		- This reduces the amount of code to be written.
- Interfaces
	- A contract on what the object can do

### Explain the 3 types of scopings for DI, and describe the difference of each.
###### Singleton
- One instance of a resource, *reused* anytime it's requested
- Disposed when the application is shutdown.
- `builder.Services.AddSingleton<IIDSingleton>(new ID());`
###### Transient
- A different instance of a resource, every time it's requested
- Disposed when the scope is completed
- `builder.Services.AddTransient<IIDTransient, ID>();` ``
###### Scoped
- One instance of a resource, but only for the current request. New request (i.e. hit an API endpoint again) = new instance
- Disposed when the scope is completed
- `builder.Services.AddScoped<IIDScoped, ID>();`

### Explain the use cases for each DI scoping approach ?
###### Singleton
- Classes that are expensive to create.
- Maintain a common state throughout the application, like a database connection.
- Configuration settings for the entire application.
- Caching mechanisms applied application-wide .
###### Transient
- Stateless
- Short lived.
- Random Generator where a new number needs to be generated every time
###### Scoped
- Use it for services that need to maintain state within a request but not beyond it.
- A new instance is created for each HTTP request but is shared across that request.
- Could also be useful for database connections where transactions are used.
- *Most services in .NET are scoped (e.g. DbContext)*

### Why are most services like `DbContext` scoped ?
##### Recap
- Avoid conflict with other requests
	- Internal cache
- Unit of Work (Single Transaction)
	- SavesChanges()
##### Detailed
- By having the services being scoped, you know that no request is going to have any conflict with another due to some shared state in a dependency. It makes your life easier.
- `DbContext` is scoped because it acts like a unit of work. Usually there is a single `SaveChanges` call per http request. *This assures that all the database changes for that request are wrapped in a single database transaction* and it allows entity framework to do some pretty neat optimisations.
- Also, `DbContext` is *not* stateless, it has an internal cache of the entities you request and calculates states and changes. Having multiple threads can mess with that internal state.

### What are the pitfalls to avoid when implementing DI scoping ?
- Avoid mutability with a Singleton.
- Avoid applying Transient to resources that are expensive to create and release. 
- Don't inject a service into another service that has a longer life cycle than it
	- For instance, don't inject transient services into scoped or singleton. Don't inject scoped into singleton. 
	- The reason is that it would actually change the behaviour of that item. So if you create a transient service that is injected into your scoped service, that scoped service lasts the lifetime with a request. It's gonna keep the same transient service inside of it that whole time rather than getting a new one anytime you want to call it. 
